The QoE modeling can be done based on two type
of parameters first subjective parameters and objective
parameters or in the other words, we can say that there
is two type of QoE measurement methods on the basis
which measurement technique they are taking the model
will be either subjective or objective. There are some
models which also consider both subjective and objective
parameters and find the relation between them and uses
for modeling and prediction Generally, QoE modeling
has two processes in developing a model (i)identify the
parameters that will feed as input (ii)mapping them to
a quality index, the parameters depend on the subjective
quality assessment. The mapping process is to find the
best fit for the prediction model.
Janowski and Papir proposed a model called generalized
linear model (GLZ) to predict QoE. Its almost like a
general form of linear regression but it can also deal with
non-normality of data. It deals with both objective and
subjective data. The model explains that while subjective
evaluation the result is an ordinal data hence we have to
concentrate more on user perspective than on pure num-
bers. the GLZ model yields a probability of each possible
category as a function of certain independent variables.
Knowing the probability of each category, much more
can be concluded from a test run than just computing
a Mean Opinion Score (MOS) value. Different types of
variables should be analyzed differently. As in subjective
tests, ordinal categories are used (with unknown distances,
though ordered); their analysis aims at a probability that
a subject will answer at least Ci where Ci is a category, for
example, Ci{Bad, P oor, ÂůÂůÂůExcellent}. Such anal-
ysis is supported by the GLZ. The cumulative distribution
function used in this model can help to understand the
diversity of user ratings.GLZ relates the particular QoE
level to independent network and application explanatory
variables in a statically credible way. The GLZ model
include (i)Maximum likelihood estimation of model pa-
rameters (ii) Selection of the most effective model with
Bayesian criteria (iii)Model validation through chi-square
test (iv)Confidence interval estimation
According to GLZ model while predicting a MOS value
of 3 can be distributed like {Excellent = 10% , Good =
25%, Fair = 30%, Poor = 25%,Bad = 10%} and here only
1/3 says that the value is 3.So from this itself its clear that
the MOS value is not much capable of calculating the real
user expectations. There is two type of variables called
ordinal and nominal. An ordinal variable is a variable
for which its order is known but a distance between
any two values is not specific or deter- mined. Some
authors claim that, since distances between subjective
categories are not equal, subjective tests cannot reveal
valuable conclusions [7].nominal variable, for example, sex
or faith. Such a variable is different from an ordinal one
since no order can be put on it.GLZ makes it possible to
estimate the categories distribution, which is much more
detailed information than just a MOS. In GLZ instead of a
category probability estimation i.e.P (Y  Ci|x1, ..., xl),a
category cumulative distribution function (category CDF)
i.e. P (Y  Ci|x1, ..., xl) is estimated where stands
for categories order. The order of categories is known,
therefore their descriptions can be mapped to consecutive
numbers. A category CDF is denoted byu = P (Y ≤ i)
with a condition |x1, ..., xl skipped for simplicity in repre-
sentation. CDF is a highly non linear function but a link
function f (u) is introduced to transform the non linear
function to a linear one.Generally it uses a log function
as a link function f (u) = log(u). A GLZ procedure as-
sumes a specific error distribution therefore a natural way
of derivation of parameters is the Maximum Likelihood
Estimation (MLE).And the product of GLZ Model is
for two independent variables x1 and x2 may be given
byf (P (Y ≤ i)) = αi + β1x1 + β2x2 + β3x1x2. for i = n
gets trivial since P (Y ≤ n) = 1,case n + 2parameters are
estimated where n is a number of categories category CDF
is given by
P (Y ≤ i) =
exp(αi + β1x1 + β2x2 + β3x1x2)
1 + exp(αi + β1x1 + β2x2 + β3x1x2)
Adoption of several different independent variables and
combining them in different polynomials generates nu-
merous models. Therefore, it is necessary to choose the
best model by some formal approach.Here it uses Bayesian
Information Criterion (BIC), also called the Schwarz In-
formation Criterion (SIC) that is given by
BIC =âĹŠ2ln(L) + kln(N )
where L is the maximized value of the likelihood func-
tion (one of the output parameters of an MLE procedure),
k is a number of model parameters and N is the sample size
(in case of subjective tests the sample size is the number of
all answers given by all subjects). The lower the BIC value,
the better the model fits the data as relates to its size.
The GLZ model delivers a probability distribution of QoE
categories which provides to engineering and management
staff much more detailed information than a simple numer-
ical index like Mean Opinion Score (MOS). Of course, the
MOS index can be derived from a QoE distribution if only
a mapping of QoE categories to numbers (not necessarily
equidistant) is defined.
Acceptability based QoE model proposed by Wei Song
and Dian W. Tjondronegoro which uses both subjective
user experience and objective system performance. This
model is able to predict user acceptability and prediction
in mobile using scenarios. It is a no-reference model. It
uses binary logistic regression analysis to determine the
significant factors influencing the user acceptance. Accord-
ing to this model, the current QoE prediction models have
two main limitations: (1) insufficient consideration of the
factors influencing QoE, and (2) limited studies on QoE
models for acceptability prediction. The main aim of the
model is to develop QoE models based on user-centered
acceptability for pleasant viewing. The parameters that
outputted from the binary logistic regression the relation
between lowest acceptable and lowest pleasing matrices
are found. Using these a set of Acceptability based QoE
models (A-QoE) are proposed to predict quality accept-
ability. This model used a subjective test using a test
tool, test videos, and participants. The different type of
videos is rated like whether they are acceptable or pleasant
on different parameters. Hence these subjective scores are
mapped into 0 or 1 like a subjective question on video
quality the lowest quality as âĂIJunacceptableâĂİ and
represented with âĂIJ0âĂİ, and the others with equal or
greater quality were regarded as âĂIJacceptableâĂİ and
represented with âĂIJ1âĂİ.The same format is followed
for the pleasing quality evaluation data. Based on the
binary data, the degree of user acceptance for each test
clip was computed as the ratio of the accumulation of
âĂIJ1âĂİs in the total number of the ratings. There are
two acceptability indexes used: general acceptability Gacc
and pleasant acceptability P acc. The GAcc score (QGAcc)
means the possibility of a video quality being generally
accepted by viewers and the PAcc score (QP Acc) means
the possibility of a video quality making viewers pleasant
or comfortable.
QGAcc =
QP Acc =
thenumberof basicacceptableratings
thetotalnumberof ratings
thenumberof acceptableratingsf orpleasantwatch
thetotalnumberof ratingsf orpleasantwatch
Then the model first evaluates the relationship between
the two parameters QGAcc and QPAcc.And they are
highly related to each other. So in finding model predictors
either of the two parameters are used. QoE modeling is
the process of establishing the relationship between the
QoE indicator i.e., QGAcc and QPAcc, and a series of
independent variables (i.e., predictors). Certain factors
that significantly affect the subjective quality acceptability
were considered as the predictors of our QoE models.
Binary logistic regression used to find such factors. And
the predictors are selected.Some of them include Con-
tent identification (CI), Quantization Parameter (QP)
etc.applied two approaches to attain the characteristics.
The first approach follows the method suggested in ITU-
T Recommendation P.910 [34] to calculate spatial infor-
mation (i.e., complexity) (SI) and temporal information
(TI) of a video content. The SI is based on the Sobel
filter over the luminance space of a video frame and the
TI is based on the temporal difference between successive
frames. On the basis of the SI and TI values for each frame,
we used the following variables:variables: ASI and ATI (the
averaged SI and TI), and NSI,NTI (the normalized SI and
TI by the maximum values), and W (the ratio of theNSI to
the NTI, which indicates the relative dominance of spatial
complexity over the temporal complexity). The second
approach works in video compression domain for MPEG4
or H.264/AVC formatted videos to extract motion char-
acteristics: motion activity intensity (MAI) defined as the
mean magnitude of motion vector (MV); motion activity
proportion (MAP) defined as the proportion of the number
of non-zero MVs in the total number of MVs; and motionactivity direction (MAD) defined as the deviation of MV
directions from the dominant movement direction. A high
MAI value often indicates fast movement; a big MAP value
often indicates large movement areas; a small MAD relates
to consistent movement. And this followed by the part
curve fitting. Where the relationship between indicators
and predictors are established. acceptability data, the
curves were not symmetrical, that is, the upper curvature
and the lower curvature are different. Hence five-parameter
logistic (5PL) modelâĂŤwas chosen for the asymmetric
curves (Fig.2). According to statistical regression theory,
Fig. 2.
The general formula of 5PL
a common way to determine a best-fitting model is to find
the parameters that minimize the sum of squared errors,
also called the residual sum of squares (RSS). The quality
of the curve fit is often accessed by the R square. The
equals the ratio of the regression sum of squares to the
total sum of squares, which explains the proportion of
variance accounted for in the dependent variable by the
model. The R2 has a value between 0 and 1. A value of
the R2 close to 1 means a good curve fit. Another way
of evaluating the model performance is to examine the
correlation between the predicted responses and the ob-
served responses. The Pearson linear correlation coefficient
(PCr) is a measure of the strength of linear dependence
between two variables, is used to indicate model accuracy.
The Spearman rank order correlation coefficient (SROC
rho) indicates prediction monotonicity. The coefficient r
or rho is between 0 and 1, and the value equal ± 1 to
indicates a perfect relationship. After the curve fitting the
A-QoE Models are proposed. The quality is predicted for
each parameter and it considers that whether we are aware
of the device display features. The A-QoE models take
into consideration significant influencing factors of user
acceptability, which were discovered from a comprehensive
user study and easy to use as we used a unified expression,
as opposed to different models for each type of video
contents by integrating the most important feature of a
mobile device and the video content features. The A-
QoE models are novel due to its capability of predict-
ing pleasant-quality for regular viewing, rather than just
lowest acceptable to watch and can be utilized in a wide
area of applications, based on the available and derivable
information.
Margaret H. Pinson and Stephen Wolf proposed A
New Standardized Method for Objectively Measuring
Video Quality. It’s an objective analysis model. The Na-
tional Telecommunications and Information Administra-
tion (NTIA) research was focused on technology indepen-
dent of parameters that model how people perceive video
quality. These parameters have been combined using a
linear model to produce an estimate of video quality that
closely approximates subjective test results. The general
purpose of video quality model, It uses the reduced-
reference technology and provides estimates of the overall
impressions of video quality (i.e., mean opinion scores, as
produced by panels of viewers). Reduced-reference mea-
surement systems utilize low-bandwidth features that are
extracted from the source and destination video streams.
Thus, reduced-reference systems can be used to perform
real-time in-service quality measurements (provided an an-
cillary data channel is available to transmit the extracted
features). Secondly, it utilizes reduced-reference param-
eters that are extracted from optimally-sized spatial-
temporal (S-T) regions of the video sequence. And also
it requires an ancillary data channel bandwidth of uncom-
pressed video. So as a conclusion the General Model and
its associated calibration techniques a complete automated
objective video quality measurement system. This model
considers Spacial alignment. Which determines horizontal
and vertical shifts of the processed video.And the accuracy
is .5 pixel for horizontal sifts and the nearest line of vertical
shifts. After calculating spacial alignment spacial shifts are
removed from the video. For interlaced video, they may
include reframing. The spacial alignment must be deter-
mined before the processed valid region(PVR)-defined as
processed video image which contains valid information.
Each quantity is obtained by comparing original video
and processed video. There is an interrelationship between
the parameters so there is a chick or egg problem like
which parameter has to be validated first. In order to
avoid these errors, the solution is an iterative search to
find the closest matching original frame for each processed
frame. The special alignment algorithm calculates the
spacial alignment for each of a series of processed frames
at some specified frequency. Using the baseline estimate
as a starting point the algorithm performs alternative
fine searches and estimation of luminous gain and level
offset.The gain and level offset calculate the mean and
standard deviation of original and processed frame com-
pared using current spatial and temporal alignment. The
second part of the model is processed valid region (PVR),
due to compression there can be some not transmitted
and they will appear as a black line in the displayed
pixel.These effects can occur on the left-right side or the
bottom. To prevent non-picture areas influencing VQM
measurement this area must be excluded. PVR calculated
for each scene separately and the invalid pictures are
removed. The valid region algorithm can also be applied
to the original video sequence. The resulting original valid
region (OVR) increases the accuracy of the processed
valid region calculation, by providing a maximal boundon the PVR.The next important part of the modeling
is gain and level offset, it says that The original and
processed images must spacially and temporally regis-
ter.The valid regions of the original and processed frames
are divided into small, square sub-regions, or blocks. The
mean of each sample is computed and standard deviation
(SD) of each different image is also selected.The frame
that produces the smallest Sdn (most cancellation with
original video) is chosen as the best match. The first
order linear fit is used to compute the relative gain and
offset between the subsample original processed frame.
The algorithm applied to multiple matching distributed
at regular interval. A median filter is then applied to
the six-time histories of the level offsets and gains to
produce average estimates for the scene.If it is a constant
it will filter for better accuracy. And the modeling includes
Temporal alignment which is objective methods for mea-
suring end-to-end video communications delay. Delay can
depend upon dynamic attributes of the original scene (e.g.,
spatial detail, motion) and video system (e.g., bit-rate).
Video delay measurements should ideally be made in-
service to be truly representative and accurate.Some video
transmission systems may provide time synchronization
information. Here presents a frame-based model. It works
by correlating lower resolution images, sub-sampled in
space and extracted from original and processed video.
These individual estimates are combined to estimate the
average delay of the video sequence. These videos are
sampled and normalized to unit variance to reduce the
influence of distortion. It also finds the relative delay
between original and processed. They are combined into a
histogram and then smoothed. Temporal alignment algo-
rithm process every video frame. The pattern in histogram
gives insight to the system under test and small errors
are relatively neglected.After this parameter calculation
for modeling executed. Quality parameter computed that
are indicative of perceptual changes in video quality.After
perceptual filtering features are extracted from spacial-
temporal sub-region using mathematical functions like
standard deviation. Perceptibility threshold is applied to
extract features. Filters are operated on frames within the
calibrated video sequence, These pixels in original and
processed images outside of the PVR have been discarded,
the processed sequence has been spatially registered.The
perceptual impairments at each S-T region are calculated
using comparison function. There are some clipping func-
tion clipped to prevent them from measuring impairments
that are imperceptible
Fclipped=max(F,threshold)
Hence the parameters like (i)Si_loss (loss of spatial
information), hv_loss (shift of edges from horizontal and
vertical orientation to diagonal orientation) etc. The Gen-
eral model proposed like
VQM = -0.2096*Si_loss+0.5969*hv_loss.....
Linear combination of seven parameters while consid-
ering VQM and subjective Pearson linear correlation is
good almost 0.938.VQM and its associated automatic
calibration algorithms have been completely implemented
in user-friendly software. This software is available to all
interested parties via a no-cost license agreement. The fun-
damental purpose of the General Model and the associated
calibration routines is to track subjective video quality
scores. This ability will be demonstrated by comparing
General Model results with subjectively rated video clips.
And the model predicts a good agreement with the user
selection.
Fan Zhang, Weisi Lin, Zhibo Chen, and King Ngi Ngan
proposed a model called Additive Log-Logistic Model
for Networked Video Quality Assessment. Additive log-
logistic model (ALM) is proposed to formulate such a mul-
tidimensional nonlinear problem. The log-logistic model
has flexible monotonic or nonmonotonic partial derivatives
and thus is suitable to model various uni-type impair-
ments. The proposed ALM metric adds the distortions
due to each type of impairment in a log-logistic trans-
formed space of subjective opinions. The features can be
evaluated and selected by classical statistical inference,
and the model parameters can be easily estimated. In this
model, it focuses on a problem of how to combine multiple
attributes. This model uses a product function to combine
quality factors in subjective opinion space followed by a
multidimensional scaling based on distance like Euclidean
distance. The aim is to formulate a new functional form
to better capture the relationship of visual quality against
the features extracted from videos. Its a completely no ref-
erence model. A stepwise regression framework with regu-
larities, the procedure of feature selection and parameter
estimation. The modeling part considers a distortion due
to impairment d. Considering it as a unitype impairment
finds the quality attribute for each unitype impairments
and further, it optimizes with hybrid impairments consid-
ering three types of impairments, denoted by c, s, and f
respectively (Compression, Slicing, Freezing). The above
process can be formulated as: in the first step, investigate
the quality function
f c(dc|ds = df = 0)f orc,
f s(ds|dc = df = 0)f ors, and
f f (df |dc = ds = 0)f orf ;in the second step, we explore
the total function
f (d c , d s , d f ) under the following constraints:
f (dc, ds, df |ds = df = 0) = f c.
f (dc, ds, df |dc = df = 0) = f s.
f (dc, ds, df |dc = ds = 0) = f f.
In order to satisfy the equations above, we introduce a
transform g and assume
g(f (dc, ds, df )) = g(f c(dc)) + g(f s(ds)) + g(f f (df ))
that is
f (dc, ds, df ) = (g−1)(g(f c(dc))+g(f s(ds))+g(f f (df ))).
Note that we havef c(0) = f s(0) = f f (0) = q best
since a video always achieves the best quality when no
impairment happens. Then, if g (q best ) = 0, Constraints
(1) will be easily satisfied. For examplef (dc, ds, df |ds = df = 0)
= (g − 1)(g(f c(dc)) + g(f s(0)) + g(f f (0)))
= (g − 1)(g(f c(dc)) + g(qbest) + g(qbest)) − 1
= g(g(f c(dc))) = f c(dc).
Like logistic models, log-logistic models belong to the
generalized linear model (GLM) [26]. With a link function.
Then the model become logg (q) = b0 x + b1 z +
loga, (x = logx, z = logz). After estimating for unitype
impairments Additive Model for Multitype Impairment
estimated Attribute functions fc, fs, and f f share the same
form of unitype . It inspires us to introduce the transform
g for the additive model.After providing a framework g (
f (dc , ds , df )) = dc + ds + df . So we call it an additive
log-logistic model (ALM). The transform g with parameter
β determines a metric space, where the distortions are
addable. Such linear metric space is not that explicit and
can scarcely be obtained from a fixed transform of the
subjective opinion space. This is because quality appraisal
has dependency with context. No-reference ALM metric
with the full-reference metrics PSNR (peak signal noise
ratio) and VQM, so that it could be justified whether
video features were fully exploited in the ALM metric.
When comparing with PSNR and VQM, the ALM metric
is more advantageous for the slicing and freezing than for
the compression impairment. This implies that the pro-
posed impaired block rate can better describe the visible
artifacts and the freezing duration can better measure the
annoyance due to visual pauses, compared with the video
difference measurement in PSNR and VQM.
The GLZ model models a single QoE parameter inde-
pendently. It is therefore difficult to predict the overall
QoE based on multiple QoE parameters. In such a case,
multiple QoE models, for each QoE parameter will need to
be developed. Then a new model for overall QoE predic-
tion can be developed based on the outputs of each QoE
model. The Acceptability based model verifies the user
expectation on two binary data. That is it has to select
acceptable or not acceptable, pleasant or not pleasant. The
main problem of the model is depending on the binary
value we canâĂŹt predict where the exact position of
current user expectation. And further, we canâĂŹt predict
how much is to improve. The General model does not
consider a subjective analysis and without considering sub-
jective analysis we canâĂŹt predict the user expectation
without having a user analysis data. And in the General
model, the spacial algorithm fails when it considers pure
computer-generated images and pure black and white
vertical straps. For such cases, iterative search algorithm
has to implement. In the case of PVR if the video contains
genuine black border the algorithm violate. The model
considering both objective and subjective parameter is
more acceptable. Additive Log-Logistic Model (ALM) is
formulated by better capturing the relationship of visual
quality against lossy compression and transmission error
(slicing and freezing), and by taking into account the
content features of content unpredictability and motion
homogeneity to achieve better accuracy. But the same
model concentrating on the network layer parameters and
not on the application layer. The application layer is the
one which directly in contact with the users and the user
expectation parameters will more reflect on application
layer parameters. In this paper, we show a novel process
to predict the user expectation by considering both sub-
jective and objective parameters and a regression models
to select the parameters and find the user expectation.
